[Music]
in space anything is possible
tiny black holes planets made of
diamonds and stars no hotter than a cup
of tea anyway the biggest star if wo H
g64 was in place of the Sun the earth
would be inside it and closer to its
center than the surface its volume is 17
billion times larger than the Suns good
thing it's a hundred and sixty thousand
light years away from us
the brightest star actually the real
thing is a hundred and sixty three
thousand light years away somewhere in
the Large Magellanic Cloud lies our 13-6
a1a star 8.7 million times brighter than
the Sun this star is also the most
massive astronomers have ever found most
elusive signals in space fast radio
bursts or FRB our radio signals so
intense the Sun produces this much
energy in 80 years these flashes rarely
appear in one place twice but there were
cases when FRB repeated continuously
before going silent some say they can be
related to neutron stars or to matter
falling into a black hole
the coldest star
those are brown dwarf stars that
essentially failed at continuing to be
hot for a long time the coldest of them
was just as hot as boiling water but
then a star was found with the
temperature barely reaching 8 degrees
Fahrenheit the fastest star in the
galaxy u.s. 708 is a rogue star that
flies right through our Milky Way galaxy
and will eventually escape it entirely
it's traveling at 745 miles per second
but in theory beyond our galaxy there
can be stars flying close to the speed
of light a nebula with the strangest
shape nebulae are large clouds of gas
able to take almost any shape but Red
Square nebula is just that a huge red
square
astronomers have no idea how exactly it
could appear but there it is the most
mysterious star astronomers can discover
exoplanets by measuring how the star's
light dims when a planet passes in front
of it
tabi star is unique in this way it
losses up to 22% of its brightness no
planet could do this a huge cloud of
dust could but tabby star is too old to
have it every answer only provides more
questions the strangest space object in
the solar system Palmilla is a dwarf
planet located in the Kuiper belt in the
outer reaches of our system it's the
fastest spinning object around the day
here lasts only 4 hours despite its
small size Palmilla has its own set of
rings which is unprecedented
the most famous black hole it's the win
astronomers took a photo of a whole
bunch of smaller telescopes work
together as a huge virtual telescope to
take a picture of m87 this black hole is
located in the center of the Messier 87
galaxy 53 million light-years away from
us the smallest planet kepler 37b is
only slightly bigger than the moon and
has a little under 1/3 of the Earth's
mass despite that it's still considered
to be a planet orbiting kepler 37 star
the smallest star it's two and a half
times smaller than Earth
it's a pulsar a form of neutron star and
that means it's so dense that even with
this size its mass is much bigger than
the Suns the darkest planet the hot
jupiter-like planet t re s to be orbits
its host star really close yet it can't
reflect almost any light from it the
planet surface is so black it absorbs
all the light the emptiest space in the
universe galaxies are arranged into
groups then into clusters and filaments
but between these colossal structures
like cosmic voids with little or no
galaxies inside them as a result any
given part of the universe would look
like a sponge with holes inside those
are voids
the most distant galaxy ever discovered
we see the gnz
11 galaxy as it was thirteen point four
billion years ago but calculations show
that this galaxy is really 32 billion
light years away from us
due to the constant expansion of the
universe the most unwelcoming
potentially habitable planet Gliese e3
81 C is a super earth planet orbiting
its star in a so-called habitable zone
close enough to be warm and have liquid
water on the surface but far enough not
to cook up the only problem is that it's
always turned to its star with one side
which is too hot while the other is too
cold and dark in the middle though there
might be a narrow stripe with just the
right temperature the tastiest part of
space Sagittarius b2 is a huge molecular
cloud not far in cosmic terms from the
center of the Milky Way scientists
recognized more than 50 different
molecules in it but one of them is the
same stuff that makes the taste of
raspberries the farthest human-made
object in space Voyager 1 was launched
in 1977 it provided numerous data and
photos of planets like Jupiter Saturn
and their moons today Voyager 1 is
already beyond the borders of the solar
system almost 14 billion miles away
the most powerful quasar quasars are
active galactic cores consisting of
supermassive black holes surrounded by
charged matter the accretion disk when
this matter falls into a black hole it
releases extreme amounts of energy the
most powerful radio signal from a quasar
came from 3c273 and is the brightest
quasar ever discovered the strangest
planet Gliese 436 B is a really hot
planet made of ice the surface
temperature here should be at around
eight hundred thirty degrees Fahrenheit
but the ice doesn't melt because of the
planets enormous gravity the largest
structure
it's called the great GRB wall a super
cluster consisting of a huge number of
galaxies gravitationally linked to each
other it would take ten billion years
for light to go from one end of it to
another which means that it takes up
around 1/9 of the whole observable
universe the biggest lightning the 3c
303 galaxy has a quasar in its core that
emits a huge cosmic jet in this jet
astronomers found an electric current
measuring at 10 to the 18th amps it's
like a trillion bolts of lightning
striking all at once
the smallest black hole those are
supposed to be supermassive but IG are
located in the constellation Scorpius is
just 3 to 10 times more massive than the
Sun in black hole terms it's teeny-tiny
the most expensive planet about 1/3 of
Planet 55 Cancri consists of carbon and
given the temperature and pressure below
its surface all of this carbon has to be
in the form of diamonds
it's literally like dirt they're the
most prolific galaxies dubbed the
baby-boom galaxy
it's the brightest starburst galaxy
known to science it produces one new
star every two hours in 12 minutes on
average and 4,000 stars per year the
Milky Way galaxy produces only 10 stars
per year the strangest galaxy shape this
prize goes to the Hogs
object a so-called ringed galaxy with an
elliptical core in the center a huge gap
further on and a ring of stars and
systems beyond that the hottest
exoplanet well its Kepler 70 B that
orbits really close to its host star and
has an estimated surface temperature of
more than 13,000 degrees Fahrenheit the
coldest planet this planet is 13,000
light-years away from us and I'm not
saying it's full name but here are the
facts it's about as big as Earth it's
about the same distance from his star
and this star is just 8% of the sun's
mass because of that the planet is an
icy wasteland like nowhere else in the
universe the most planets in the
habitable zone it's the Trappist one
planetary system it consists of seven
planets five of them are close to Earth
in size and three are located in the
habitable zone of their host star it
means this system alone has three
candidates for the possible development
of life the planet with the most stars
double star systems are quite widespread
in the universe but exoplanet Kepler 64b
orbits a double star that orbits a
double star four stars at once the
oldest discovered star twelve thousand
four hundred light-years away from us
lies a star that is over 12 billion
years old almost three times older than
the Sun the most unique place in the
universe zooming in from the Milky Way
galaxy to our solar system and
finally at last the earth
as scientists no there is no bigger
mystery in the world than life and how
it came to exist
[Music]
and this is the only world we know of so
far that contains that precious life
kind of blows your mind doesn't it
[Music]